---
layout: post
title: Xword
dateline: Summer 2020
permalink: /projects/xword/about
description: multiplayer crosswords
links:
 - name: Play it here
   url: https://x-word.herokuapp.com
 - name: See the code on GitHub
   url: https://github.com/cmhainje/xword
---

Before the COVID-19 pandemic brought about our exodus from campus, one of my
favorite pastimes was solving the Nassau Weekly's Sunday crossword with my
friends each week. The Nass continued to post their crosswords online each week
during the remainder of our semester, but obviously it wasn't very easy to do
them together with my friends with us spread across the United States. So I set
out to make a multiplayer crossword player web app. The result: Xword.

Xword is not the most robust crossword app, but its most important feature is
that it is multiplayer. Upon connection, users may create or join a room via
room code. Once in a room, users can see the cells that other room members have
selected, and the letters placed in each cell are synced between all members of
the room. Further, one can select a clue to have the squares associated with
that clue highlighted, though this is not synced between room members, so as to
allow each member to look at a different clue if they'd like.

## Development 

I made Xword using React and Socket.io, and JavaScript was used exclusively for
everything not already handled by one of these libraries. React was used to
create a dynamic user interface for interacting with the crossword squares and
clues. I'd never used React before, so this project was meant to be my first
real attempt at learning React, and I think React's strengths really lent
themselves to this type of project.

I'd also never done much in the way of networking or using WebSockets. Socket.io
ended up proving rather simple and straightforward to learn for a decently
simple server implementation. Messages are passed back and forth between the
server and clients with simple `socket.emit()` statements. For example, when a
player presses a key to insert a value into a square, the keypress handler emits
a `valueUpdate` message to the server, which relays the message back to the other
room members, whose crossword boards update correspondingly.

[link]: //x-word.herokuapp.com
[gh]: //github.com/cmhainje/xword
