---
layout: post
title: Senior thesis
tag: research
description: testing self-interacting dark matter models by simulating the evolution of the Sagittarius stream
links:
 - name: Read the full thesis [PDF]
   url: /assets/resources/thesis.pdf
 - name: See the code on GitHub
   url: https://github.com/cmhainje/thesis
---

Technically, I finished my thesis about a month ago, with the write-up due on
April 30 and my presentation on May 6. I really had a lot of fun with this
research project and I would love to talk a little more about it here on the
Internet. First, though, [here][thesis] was the final thesis as I had it
printed.

The basic pitch of my project is as follows: studies of the Sagittarius (Sgr)
dwarf galaxy have shown that its infall into the Milky Way left behind a
spectacular stream of stellar debris. This stream has some interesting
properties, making it a useful laboratory for testing predictions about gravity,
dark matter models, and more. Our goal, then, was to test self-interacting dark
matter (SIDM) models using simulations of the infall of Sgr to see whether the
presence of self-interactions has a notable effect on the evolution of this
stream. We performed similar N-body simulations using collisionless (not
self-interacting) dark matter (CDM) starting from two different initial
distributions of stars. The final results can be summed up in this movie:

![
    A GIF which shows the evolution of the stars and dark matter particles for
    the two CDM cases and the SIDM case. A more careful description of the
    differences follows.
][movie]{:class="img-responsive" width="100%"}

In the movie, the red points are stellar macroparticles (representing stars) and
the black points are dark matter macroparticles. Even from this simple
visualization, we can see dramatic differences between the CDM cases (the left
two) and the SIDM case (the rightmost one). Notice in particular the lack of
intricate structure formed at late times in the SIDM case, as well as the how
the dark matter particles (black) collapse entirely toward the center in that
case (a behavior completely unreproduced in the CDM simulations).

With these data, we then perform coordinate transformations to look at the
positions in the common observational coordinate systems used by astronomers.
Doing this allows us to compare the simulated stream to the _actual_ stream
observed in the sky. The results? Qualitatively, all of the streams are pretty
close to what is observed, though the SIDM seems to show the worst agreement.
However, when we look at the progenitor in particular, we see that the SIDM
simulation is unable to reproduce both the shape of the stream _and_ the
observed position of the progenitor today. This is pretty damning for the SIDM
model. 

That was all that I was able to accomplish in my senior year, but there are some
obvious next steps that need to be worked on and ironed out in order to move
forward with this project. The biggest is that our N-body simulations initially
place the Sgr galaxy at the position where it best reproduces the stream in
_CDM_ studies. It's possible that some of the issues we see with SIDM agreement
come from the fact that the SIDM best-fit initial position may just be different
than CDM, and thus varying the initial parameters may resolve the discrepancies.
It's also possible that a parameter search will show that the only parameters
able to resolve the discrepancy are untenable for other reasons. Only further
studies will show, which is why I will be continuing to work on this project in
the coming months!

[thesis]: /assets/resources/thesis.pdf
[movie]: /assets/resources/thesis-movie.gif
