---
layout: post
title: Monthly 5
---

## Recently

October was a really fun month. Some notable happenings:

- I saw Reese Witherspoon up close while she was filming an upcoming Netflix movie only a block away from me.
- I went to a Japanese Breakfast concert, and it was an amazing time. I don't know if I've ever enjoyed a concert quite as much.
- I went to Boston for the first time! It was primarily to surprise visit a friend for his birthday, but I also took the chance to visit the MIT and Harvard campuses (briefly, by car). Very cool; I don't think I'd mind to end up in that city.
- I tried omakase for the first time, and it was _really_ good.
- I went axe throwing!
- I got promoted from undergraduate intern to post-Bachelors staff at the Lab. Really thrilled!

In other news, I have been listening to and reading a lot of content lately on the subjects of local-first software, tools for  thought, and building personal tools, and I've found that a lot of it has resonated with me. I really want to build software to learn how things work, to obtain a sense of greater control and security over my computing life, and to be able to use software more often that really sparks joy for me. More generally, I really like the idea of building software to serve a purpose greater than just performing some simple function. Instead of that, these communities talk a lot about the idea of making software to help people learn/think in new way, making software to take back control of our data, making software to _learn_ about how it works, or just making software to make people happy. This feels nice, and it's something I want to dedicate more time to. 

As such, I'm starting a new project that I'm calling the _Café_, which will hold my own suite of personal tools. These tools will be purpose-built to learn and to scratch my own design itch, though I'll definitely make them open source and write up some documentation from time to time in case others want to use or learn from my work. One of the first planned tools in the _Café_ will be _Latte_, my text editor, though I doubt it will be remotely close to the first project I finish. (Still not quite sure what tech stack I want to use to build the thing!)

## Upcoming

A couple of events are coming up:
- Crumb concert in early November
- Thanksgiving; a.k.a. my first time back home since June!

I'm also looking forward to potentially getting to spend more time reading this month, as well as dedicating a bit of time to learning/coding.