---
layout: post
title: Monthly 2
---

Time for my second monthly blog post. We are coming off the back of a month that
was pretty full of activities.

## Recently

In June, I started working full time again for PNNL. The work has been fun and
we've been making lots of good progress, including the system I built for
[viewing plots][plots]. It's been fun to blend Python and web stuff together to
create an interface that better lets us explore these 56 bins; I'm still working
on expanding it!

I also started working for Princeton on the continuation of my senior thesis. I
unfortunately haven't really been able to make a lot of progress yet on account
of difficult-to-figure-out new software and little time to dedicate to it. One
of my goals for July is to figure out how to more consistently dedicate a good
amount of time to this, because it _is_ something that I care about and I want
to do good with it.

Yesterday, I got back from Yellowstone! It was my first time in the Great Plains
region of the U.S. as well as my first trip to a national park! The sights were
really quite lovely; I plan on posting another blog post soon with photos that I
took while I was there (update 2021-07-03: see the blog post [here][blog]). We
saw a lot of amazing things and I really had a blast.

I've also spent some time doing some other fun activities during the month.
Here's some of the media I've consumed that I'm excited about:
- _Loki_ (the four episodes that are out) has been a blast and I'm excited for
  the rest
- _WandaVision_ (the first half) was way more entertaining than I expected;
  planning to watch the rest shortly
- _Teen Dream_ by Beach House is way better than I thought it was on my first
  listen; definitely getting added to the album rotation
- Japanese Breakfast (the band) is amazing

I also tore my KBD67 Lite apart, threw on new Durock Linear switches (that I
lubed myself with Tribosys 3204), and relubed the stabs with dielectric grease.
The result has been a lot of fun to type on, barring an _extremely_ annoying
ticking noise coming from the spacebar now. I almost wish I hadn't touched the
stabs in the first place, but they _feel_ good and the switches are amazing.

## Upcoming

Just because June was a busy month full of exciting things doesn't mean that
July won't be! I'm looking forward to a new intern joining my team at PNNL and
the development of better time-management outside of work. I've also got a
family gathering coming up on the Fourth and my move to Brooklyn shortly
thereafter. It's a bit scary to think about being on my own in Brooklyn, but I
don't anticipate it being very different from my roughly four months in Queens
(albeit with a better work-life balance and more money).

I also have tickets to several concerts in Brooklyn: Japanese Breakfast, Crumb,
and Emmaline (an acquaintance from a music camp long ago). Very excited to start
going to concerts and developing a real social life, hopefully one very
different from quarantine. I'm looking forward to putting together Kathryn's
keyboard, getting to go out on fun dinner dates in the city with her, and just
in general getting to spend my time doing more fun things in the coming weeks.
Hopefully next month's update will find this optimism to have been well-placed.


[plots]: https://cmhainje.github.io/b2-interactive-plots/
[blog]: /blog/2021/07/03/yellowstone.html
