---
layout: post
title: Monthly 1
---

One of the things that I want to do with this blog is to once a month reflect on
what's going on in my life and how the previous month has been. This is the
first such post, and a lot of stuff has happened over the past month that I'd
like to talk about.

## Recently

First and foremost, I graduated! I am now officially an alum of Princeton
University, which feels utterly bizarre to write like that. It has been
certainly very bittersweet to realize that I won't be returning to campus,
walking the halls of Jadwin, studying at Firestone, or eating at the local
restaurants on Nassau, but also classes were hard and I am not that upset to get
a break from them for a while. It has also been a bit freeing and exciting to
know that I am now moving onto the next phase of my life, with the freedom to
plan it and structure however I choose.

Also with the end of school came the end of my senior thesis. My thesis has been
one of the most fun research projects that I have ever gotten to work on, and I
am quite pleased with the way that it turned out. I really think that we were
finding some very interesting results toward the end, and I am excited to get to
continue working on this project (for pay!) in the coming months.

Also coming with these things is my return home. For potentially the last time,
I am living at home with my family. It's... happy. I like being here. I'm not
really in love with the town, but I really enjoy getting to spend time with my
parents and siblings, and I'm going to miss them when I move away. The next time
I leave, I don't know when I'll be back and that is a little scary. I do hope to
come home for all the major holidays and the like, but I don't know when the
next time I'll be home a few _weeks_ or longer will be. I suppose that's a call
to make the most of the time I have here, then!

## Upcoming

I also have a lot of exciting things coming up that I'm really looking forward
to. For one, I'll be going on vacation with Kathryn's family to Yellowstone
National Park at the end of June. Yellowstone is a beautiful place that I have
wanted to visit for some time, and I think it will be a lot of fun. 

I am also really excited because I plan to move to NYC sometime in July.
Planning that and handling the logistics is a bit stressful for sure, but I am
very excited to be in the city. I have had a lot of good experiences there,
including the four months I lived in Queens in 2020. It'll be nice to be back,
but with a little more permanence.

