---
layout: post
title: Junior Paper - Gravitational Wave Review
dateline: Fall 2019
---

[See the paper.][paper-link]

In the physics department at Princeton, concentrators are required to do an
independent research project each semester of their junior year. This is the
project I completed for the fall semester, under the advisory of Prof. Herman
Verlinde.

The project was a literature review in which I reviewed the theory relevant to
the gravitational waveforms produced during black hole mergers. The paper starts
with a brief overview of the general relativity necessary to describe black
holes and gravitational waves. It then merges the two to show the waves produced
by black hole mergers, and culminates in a discussion of the waveforms of the
ringdown phase specifically. This involves a discussion of the theory of
quasinormal modes, the importance of overtones in waveform analysis, and methods
for parameter recovery.

This project is chiefly important because it serves as my first foray into
astrophysics. Over the past few semesters, I've become increasingly interested
in diversifying my research a bit and beginning to do something on a "larger"
scale, given that most of my background has been with nuclear and particle
physics. This project, then, represented the beginning of an endeavor to do just
that, and I found the whole experience greatly enjoyable. I really liked what
general relativity I learned, as well as the physics I picked up to describe
black holes and gravitational waves. On the whole, it was a fun project, and I'd
love to do more in the same vein in the future.

[paper-link]: /assets/resources/fall-jp.pdf
