---
layout: post
title: Belle II at PNNL
dateline: Summer 2019
---

In the summer of 2019, I worked at Pacific Northwest National Lab in Richland,
WA as a part of the U.S. D.O.E.'s [Science Undergraduate Laboratory Internships
(SULI)][suli-website] program. I worked with Dr. Jan Strube as a member of the
Belle II experiment. Belle II is an $$e^+ e^-$$ collider experiment. My work was
primarily involved with a particular subdetector of the full Belle II detector
system called the Time-of-Propagation, or TOP, detector. In particular, I
performed a deep analysis of the TOP detector to try to uncover regions of
better or worse performance. Then, I built a novel framework for Monte
Carlo-based TOP likelihood calculation.

The TOP detector is at the core of the Belle II particle identification (PID)
system. The way it works is by harnessing the phenomenon of Cherenkov radiation.
In general, when a particle is traveling through matter at a speed faster than
the local speed of light in the matter, it will emit photons along a cone around
the particle. In a sense, it's the optical analogue of a "sonic boom." As such,
the TOP detector consists primarily of a vary large quartz bar, through which
high energy particles will pass after collision events. As they move through the
bar, they produce photons in the quartz. These photons are internally reflected
throughout the quartz bar until they reach an array of photomultipliers (PMTs)
at one end of the TOP detector, where the photons are detected. From this
readout, we can in theory reconstruct the angle between the particle's path
through the TOP detector and the emitted Cherenkov photons. This angle is
characteristic for each kind of particle, and thus allows us to identify the
particle that has just been detected.

The TOP detector has many weird quirks, and most of my summer was spent trying
to uncover and describe some of these. One of the primary things I explored was
whether there exists any spatial dependence of the TOP detector's likelihood
performance. This primarily consisted of using Geant4 to simulate millions of
collision events in the Belle II detector. I then binned all events based on
their entry positions into the TOP detector and analyzed various quantities,
such as pion-kaon separation power, as a function of bar entry coordinates. We
found some interesting phenomena.

For example, there is a region about two-thirds of the way along the bar, away
from the PMT array, where performance is surprisingly boosted. This region, we
found, corresponds to a region where track geometry combines with the geometry
of the quartz bar to preserve far more photons. Namely, the majority of photons
produced by an incident particle do not make it to be detected by the PMT array,
but in this region, the angles are just right such that a higher number of
photons are preserved and detected.

The latter half of my summer was spent building a computational framework for
Monte Carlo-based likelihood calculations. The idea here was to replace the
analytic TOP likelihood calculation system with a system backed entirely by
Geant4 simulation data. Why? Preliminary data runs showed that the analytic
likelihood system in the TOP was underperforming in real data compared to
simulation. Further, the analytic likelihood distributions often did not match
the MC distributions. As such, we desired to see whether an MC-backed likelihood
calculation, which effectively amounts to a very, very large, multi-dimensional
histogram, could outperform the analytic likelihoods.

This project required the development of an optimized computational framework,
as the amount of data required to cover the phase space of particle tracks is
extremely large. Optimization required the development of basic parallelization
and multiprocessing techniques, as well as the development of a smart, optimal
storage system for the data.

In the end, we were not able to beat the analytic likelihood system's
performance on simulation data, but we were able to come somewhat close.
However, the real test of this system would be measuring its performance on
data, but the level of data production was still quite low by the time I was
leaving Richland.

This project resulted in the publication of a Belle II Internal Technical Note.

[suli-website]: https://science.osti.gov/wdts/suli/
