---
layout: post
title: Junior Paper - SPIDER
dateline: Spring 2020
---

[See the paper.][paper-link]

My second junior paper, performed under the advisory of Prof. Bill Jones. For
this research, I worked as a member of the [SPIDER experiment][spider-link].
SPIDER is an experiment designed to measure the polarized CMB with unprecedented
resolution.  The SPIDER apparatus is a balloon-borne polarimeter which underwent
data-taking flights back in 2015.  My work was largely concerned with analyzing
the data polarized CMB maps taken during these flights. In particular, I was
tasked with developing a method for quantifying the degree to which signals from
galactic dust remained present in the SPIDER maps after cleaning them.

The presence of galactic dust in maps of the polarized CMB is a problem that
plagues most experiments like SPIDER, so it is necessary to develop
sophisticated methods to remove these signals from CMB maps. Galactic dust
orients itself with local magnetic field structures, which causes its thermal
radiation and starlight re-radiation to be polarized in preferred directions.
This radiation tends to be at similar wavelengths to CMB radiation, so we need
to clean CMB maps of this radiation in order to be sure that any patterns we see
are definitively not from galactic dust.

Researchers Clark and Hensley recently (2019) published a paper wherein they
describe correlations between galactic HI structures and galactic dust,
presenting a new method by which one can probe (and quantify) the degree to
which a CMB map contains dusty signals. Most of my research involved trying to
reproduce their work in which they calculated two correlation metrics between HI
maps and the Planck 353 GHz map (a map which is known to be dominated by dusty
signals, and thus a good approximation of a plain map of galactic dust).

The end goal of this research was to complete the reproduction of Clark and
Hensley's correlation calculations, and then to use the correlation
calculating-pipeline to calculate the same correlations between the cleaned
SPIDER maps and galactic HI maps as an independent measure of the presence of
dusty signals in the cleaned maps. Unfortunately, I was never able to fully
reproduce Clark and Hensley's calculations, in large part simply because we ran
out of time.

My work still provided me with a good amount of new knowledge, though, and this
is all summarized in the paper. Further, my inability to reproduce the C&H
result is important in its own right: if other researchers similarly try and
fail to reproduce the plot, then there is potentially an error in Clark and
Hensley's work that needs to be corrected.

[paper-link]: /assets/resources/spring-jp.pdf
[spider-link]: https://spider.princeton.edu
