---
layout: post
title: KBD67 Lite
---

I recently (about a month and a half ago) purchased and built my first custom
mechanical keyboard. It is a [KBD67 Lite R1][kb] from KBDFans, with 
[Gazzew Boba U4][boba] switches and the excellent [PBT Notion][caps] keycaps
from [biip][biip]. I have now been using it for a lot of my typing and
programming in the time since (and there has been a _lot_ of typing in that
time), so I thought I would take a little time to go over some of my thoughts on
this board.

## Specs

- Case: ABS plastic, white color
- Plate: polycarbonate
- PCB: same as the KBD67 MKII
    - Kailh hot-swap switches
    - USB-C connector
    - Per-key RGB
    - VIA compatible
- Stabilizers: Cherry screw-in
- Switches: Boba U4
- Keycaps: PBT Notion

## Thoughts

All in all, I think I really like this keyboard. As it is my first custom
mechanical keyboard, I don't exactly have a lot to compare it against. I can
instead comment on the features of this board in particular that I like.

The sound is actually quite muted and low in pitch, both of which are really
appealing to me. I think that a lot of that, however, has to do with the
switches I chose, which are meant to be silent and strongly-tactile. I feel like
the switches are a bit scratchy, though; something that would probably be fixed
by lubing them. I will comment, though, that these switches took a little while
to break in; in the beginning, I had some pretty significant issues with keys
sending double-presses and with the switches struggling to return from a
depressed state. Nowadays, I don't have much of an issue with those things at
all. I do find, however, that the switches feel just a little heavy to me, and
my hands do get a bit tired if I'm typing a lot on it. Maybe switches with a
weaker tactile bump, or maybe even linears, would alleviate that problem. (I
know it's never been an issue on my old Ducky keyboard running MX Browns...)

In terms of the look of the board, I think this is fantastic. I am quite a fan
of white on my tech, so the white case and white keycaps with a few splashes of
color is really nice. I have also really enjoyed the customizability that I've
been able to take advantage of with VIA. I haven't done a lot with it, but it
has been super easy and convenient.

I also really appreciated that the board came mostly pre-assembled from KBDFans,
albeit lacking switches and keycaps. Combining that with a hot-swap PCB meant
that the build process was really painless and easy for a total beginner like
myself. I definitely think I would recommend the KBD67 Lite to newcomers to the
mechanical keyboard hobby, though I'm not sure I would recommend the Bobas. All
in all, though, I'm quite happy with this one.


[kb]: https://kbdfans.com/products/kbd67lite
[boba]: https://www.ashkeebs.com/product/gazzew-u4-boba-switches/
[caps]: https://novelkeys.xyz/collections/keycaps/products/pbt-notion
[biip]: https://twitter.com/biipmk