---
layout: post
title: Monthly 4
---

It's October! Already! We are getting into one of my absolute favorite parts of the year, and I am really excited to get to spend it in New York. We are also rapidly approaching a number of important dates, including the holidays, that I am really looking forward to!

## Recently

In September, I went to my first concert in quite a long time. Kathryn and I saw [Emmaline](https://www.emmalineofficial.com/) in Williamsburg, and I have to say that I really, really enjoyed the show. There were a decent number of people there, too, but not too many, which makes me feel like I'm easing back into the world a little bit.

I also went to Maine for the first time! I am never _not_ amazed by cool coastal regions (growing up 800+ miles from the nearest ocean will do that to you), and this was no exception. I ate famous Maine lobster for the first time (which was quite an experience) and my first ever lobster roll. It was really a lot of fun.

I also went to Princeton to see Shang-Chi with some of my non-graduated college friends. I really enjoyed the movie, and I was super stoked to see that they took an opportunity to tell a story from a new perspective and really dug deep into how they could make that a special experience. I was frankly pretty surprised at how 30-40% of the dialogue was in Mandarin, and for both of my (Mandarin-speaking) friends I think it was kind of a plus!

I have spent quite a bit of time this month beginning to learn [Rust](https://www.rust-lang.org/). I want to build my own text editor, preferably with a GUI and support for hooking into [Neovim](https://neovim.io/) as a backend, and figured that such an endeavor could be a perfect time to learn a new language. I've gotten a bit discouraged with it, though, which has also resulted in me working through a course on [Vue.js](https://v3.vuejs.org/) and building a crappy mock-up for the editor I want. I think I'm going to return to building this in Rust, though, and focus on just getting the _editing_ pipeline working. To do this, I'm going to start by following [this tutorial](https://viewsourcecode.org/snaptoken/kilo/), which walks through the process of building a 1000-line terminal text editor in C. Following this and translating it into Rust shouldn't be too hard, and when I'm done I will hopefully have a working text editor that we can iterate on! At that point, I'll look into adding support for the Neovim backend, GUIs, etc.

The end of September has been a little bit tainted, though, by some really shitty experiences with Spotify security. My account was hacked into on three separate occasions, despite changing my passwords, logging myself out of all devices, removing access for apps and services, disconnecting from my Facebook account, changing my passwords and enabling 2FA on my email and Facebook accounts, etc. I really have _no_ idea how it happened, and I _still_ haven't heard back from Spotify support regarding the second and third break-ins. I'm not sure what to do about it, but I think for posterity I will write up all of my experiences in another upcoming blog post. I'll update this page to add the link to it once it's out.

Also, it would _not_ be a monthly review of my life if I didn't include a view into the media I've been consuming lately.
- *Ted Lasso* remains amazing.
- *The Morning Show*'s return has been great.
- *Schmigadoon!* was really enjoyable, and I think I would recommend it in spite of its silly-seeming premise. I don't really love musicals, but this was fun all the same!
- *Only Murders in the Building* is honestly one of the biggest surprises of September for me. I thought I would like the show, but I really love it. This show is _awesome_. It has been really good straight from the start, but as the story unfolds I really feel like the show just keeps picking up steam! Can't wait to see how it ends.
- Finally got around to watching _The Truman Show_ and oh my god did I love it. That movie is really fantastic.
- I enjoyed _Jennifer's Body_, though I don't know that it's one of my favorites. It's also definitely showing its age a little with all of its super late-2000's pop culture, though that was kind of enjoyable in its own way.
- The last movie of September was _Crazy Stupid Love_. It was a lot of fun, and I'm kind of surprised that I hadn't ever watched it before. 

(Regarding the movies that I watch, I also track them [here on Letterboxd](https://letterboxd.com/chainje/)!)

## Upcoming

There are several fun events that I'm looking forward to coming up in October! Here's a quick list:
- First gathering of all my college friends since May 2019!
- [Japanese Breakfast](http://www.japanesebreakfast.rocks/) concert!
- Fourth anniversary of my relationship!

I am looking forward to continuing work on my text editor endeavors, doing fun fall activities in the city, crossing movies off my watchlist, and watching some of my favorite TV series _ever_ wrap up their seasons.

Also, October is the month of grad school applications for me. The plan right now is to actually do all of my writing for all of my schools during the month of October, and leave November for iterating and polishing. Fingers crossed that all will go well on that front 🤞.

Most of all though, I think I'm feeling a bit happier now than I've been in a while, and I'm excited to just keep that going. :)
